Add Template function reference to PKO documentation (#24)
package-operator/package-operator.github.io: content/en/docs/getting_started/template-reference.md

---
title: "Template Reference"
draft: false
images: []
weight: 800
toc: true
---

Package Operator allows for in-cluster templating of files ending in `.gotmpl` via the [Go template engine](https://pkg.go.dev/text/template).

> Package Operator templates use the [Masterminds Sprig](https://github.com/Masterminds/sprig) template library to offer additional functions. PKO template aims to be reproducible, so Sprig template functions producing non-reproducible outputs, like current date/time, random number generation, etc. Are not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PKO templates aim to be reproducible, so Sprig template functions producing non-reproducible outputs, like current date/time, random number generation, etc. are not available.
```

- [Templates](#templates)
- [Dictionaries](#dictionaries)
- [String](#string)
- [String Slice](#string-slice)
- [Integer Slice](#integer-slice)
- [Integer Math](#integer-math)
- [Float Math](#float-math)
- [Defaults](#defaults)
- [Encoding](#encoding)
- [Lists](#lists)
- [Type Conversion](#type-conversion)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
- [Reflection](#reflection)
- [Path and Files](#path-and-files)
- [Semantic Version](#semantic-version)

## Templates

### `include`

The `include` function executes a pre-defined template and returns it as string, so it can be piped through over functions like `indent`.

```go
{{- define "test-helper" -}}test-helper{{- end -}}
{{include "include-test" . | upper | quote}}
---
"\"TEST-HELPER\""
```

## Dictionaries

Sprig provides a key/value storage type called a `dict` (short for "dictionary",

> as in Python). A `dict` is an _unorder_ type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as in Python). A `dict` is an _unordered_ type.
```

Given a map and a key, get the value from the map.

```go
get $myDict "key1"
```

The above returns `"value1"`

Note that if the key is not found, this operation will simply return `""`. No error
will be generated.

---

### `set`

Use `set` to add a new key/value pair to a dictionary.

```go
$_ := set $myDict "name4" "value4"
```

Note that `set` _returns the dictionary_ (a requirement of Go template functions),
so you may need to trap the value as done above with the `$_` assignment.

---

### `unset`

Given a map and a key, delete the key from the map.

```go
$_ := unset $myDict "name4"
```

As with `set`, this returns the dictionary.

Note that if the key is not found, this operation will simply return. No error
will be generated.

---

### `hasKey`

The `hasKey` function returns `true` if the given dict contains the given key.

```go
hasKey $myDict "name1"
```

If the key is not found, this returns `false`.

---

### `pluck`

The `pluck` function makes it possible to give one key and multiple maps, and
get a list of all of the matches:

```go
pluck "name1" $myDict $myOtherDict
```

The above will return a `list` containing every found value (`[value1 otherValue1]`).

> If the give key is _not found_ in a map, that map will not have an item in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the given key is _not found_ in a map, that map will not have an item in the
```

```

The above will return `true`

## Path and Files

While Sprig does not grant access to the filesystem, it does provide functions
for working with strings that follow file path conventions.

### Paths

Paths separated by the slash character (`/`), processed by the `path` package.

Examples:

- The [Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux) and
  [MacOS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacOS)
  [filesystems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_system):
  `/home/user/file`, `/etc/config`;
- The path component of
  [URIs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier):
  `https://example.com/some/content/`, `ftp://example.com/file/`.

---

### `base`

Return the last element of a path.

```go
base "foo/bar/baz"
```

The above prints "baz".

---

### `dir`

Return the directory, stripping the last part of the path. So `dir "foo/bar/baz"`
returns `foo/bar`.

---

### `clean`

Clean up a path.

```go
clean "foo/bar/../baz"
```

The above resolves the `..` and returns `foo/baz`.

---

### `ext`

Return the file extension.

```go
ext "foo.bar"
```

The above returns `.bar`.

---

### `isAbs`

To check whether a path is absolute, use `isAbs`.

---

### `getFile`

> Access another file in the package. The files contents will be available as string and can be piped to other functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access another file in the package. The file's content will be available as string and can be piped to other functions.
```
